ITEP-68805 Cartesian to Geospatial conversion: how-to document (#138)
open-edge-platform/scenescape: docs/user-guide/How-to-configure-geospatial-coordinates.md

# How to Configure Geospatial Coordinates for a Scene

With this guide, you will learn how to configure Intel® SceneScape to output geospatial coordinates of detected objects. It involves:

- Setting up reference points of the scene, using local and geospatial coordinate systems.
- Configuring Intel® SceneScape to properly calculate and publish geospatial coordinates (latitude, longitude, altitude).
- Verifying if the coordinates of detected objects are published in MQTT messages.

## Assumptions

The conversion of object's local coordinates to geospatial coordinates system is reliable (stays within ~1 meter of accuracy) if the following are true:

- the scene surface is horizontal and relatively flat

> - the scene dimensions are below 400m

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the scene dimensions are less than 400 meters
```

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/3c8ae035ca9bb90ba932bea7d4685fe02b6aeef8

> - The scene dimensions are less than 400 meters.

Author: I am not sure that this is really required. In the assumptions we say that the scene should be flat, so it is rather clear that Z (vertical) dimension is not considered here. On the other hand, if we say "no larger than 400x400", it is not clear whether e.g. 450x350 is larger than 400x400 or not. With current wording, it is rather clear that each of the dimensions should be less than 400 meters. 

For maximum clarify we could say "each of the scene horizontal dimensions is less than 400 meters" do you find it clearer?

> - The scene dimensions are less than 400 meters.

Reviewer 2: That's exactly it, I fully agree :) If we can specify that "Both X and Y dimensions are less than 400m in length", there will be no ambiguity whatsoever.

### Conventions

- **Determining the Reference Points**: The reference points needed for the conversion are four map corners, which are determined relative to the map using the following convention:
  - For scene maps loaded as an image, Intel® SceneScape internally determines the map corners as the corners of the image with the X axis along the first image dimension.
  - For scene maps loaded as a 3D model, Intel® SceneScape internally determines the map corners by projecting the scene to the XY plane and calculating an axis-aligned bounding box of the scene projection.

- **Specifying the Geospatial Coordinates of the Reference Points**: The geospatial coordinates of the reference points, which are the four map corners, should be specified using the following convention:
  - Input format should be a JSON array, for example:
    ```json
    [
      [33.842058, -112.136117, 539],
      [33.842175, -112.134245, 539],
      [33.843923, -112.134407, 539],
      [33.843811, -112.136257, 539]
    ]
    ```

>   - Let `x` and `y` be the size of the scene in meters along the X and Y axes. The expected order of the four map corners is `(0, 0, 0) (x, 0, 0) (x, y, 0) (0, y, 0)` as depicted in the figure below:

Reviewer: It may be confusing to mix (x,y) in the figure points below, with (x,y,z) in the text, with [lat, lng, alt] in the JSON. Why don't we just simplify the figure to not include the (0, 0), (x, 0), (x, y), (0, y) in the figure at all? Just label the corners 1, 2, 3, and 4 to indicate the order of geospatial points in the configuration JSON. The text might then be:

```suggestion
  - The expected order of the four map corners is counterclockwise starting in the lower left as depicted in the figure below:
```

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/85716b40c5b154a999f59983af0fe5902eadcc28

# How to Configure Geospatial Coordinates for a Scene

> This guide provides step-by-step instructions to configure Intel® SceneScape to output geospatial coordinates (latitude, longitude, altitude) of detected objects. By completing this guide, you will:

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/ce4cd09426db07e5dafa439557c8d7a8692e5487

> - Set up the reference points of the scene using local and geographical coordinate systems

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/ce4cd09426db07e5dafa439557c8d7a8692e5487

- Configure Intel® SceneScape to properly calculate and publish geospatial coordinates of detected objects

> - Validate that latitude, longitude and altitude of detections are published in MQTT messages

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/7c9c39e85086208ec40c42f6b7deed5a0b12e0b2

> ## Assumptions

Author: I will stay with Assumptions

> The conversion of object's local coordinates to geographic coordinates system is reliable (stays within ~1 meter of accuracy) if the following are true:

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/3c8ae035ca9bb90ba932bea7d4685fe02b6aeef8

> The conversion of object's local coordinates to geographic coordinates system is reliable (stays within ~1 meter of accuracy) if the following are true:

Author: I chose the other version proposed by @kblaszczak-intel . Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/3c8ae035ca9bb90ba932bea7d4685fe02b6aeef8

- the scene surface is horizontal and relatively flat
- the scene dimensions are below 400m

> - the detected objects are located up to 2 meters above the scene surface

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/3c8ae035ca9bb90ba932bea7d4685fe02b6aeef8

> - the measurement error of geographic coordinates of the reference points (map corners) is negligible

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/3c8ae035ca9bb90ba932bea7d4685fe02b6aeef8

> Meeting the assumptions listed above is not required to use the feature. However, it is highly recommended to ensure they are met because any deviation from the listed assumptions can lead to increased inaccuracy of the detected object's latitude, longitude and altitude. Especially in such cases the accuracy of the conversion should be validated experimentally.

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/3c8ae035ca9bb90ba932bea7d4685fe02b6aeef8

## Prerequisites

> Before you begin, ensure the following:

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/7c9c39e85086208ec40c42f6b7deed5a0b12e0b2

- **Dependencies Installed**: Intel® SceneScape deployed, MQTT client installed, and MQTT access credentials configured.
- **Access and Permissions**: Appropriate access to edit the scene with the UI and receive MQTT messages on the scene regulated topic.

> - **Scene Preparation**: A scene is created as follows (refer to [this](./How-to-create-new-scene.md) document to learn about setting up a new scene):

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/6b9da58416154a503f873f6b71fc6248239381e5

>   - Scene surface should be of a rectangular shape with edges aligned to X and Y axis (which is true by design for flat maps loaded from images but must be ensured by the user for 3D models formats). See the next sections for how to verify this condition in practice.

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/6b9da58416154a503f873f6b71fc6248239381e5

  - For scene maps loaded as an image, Intel® SceneScape internally determines the map corners as the corners of the image with the X axis along the first image dimension.
  - For scene maps loaded as a 3D model, Intel® SceneScape internally determines the map corners by projecting the scene to the XY plane and calculating an axis-aligned bounding box of the scene projection.

- **Specifying the Geospatial Coordinates of the Reference Points**: The geographic coordinates of the reference points, which are the four map corners, should be specified using the following convention:
  - Input format should be a JSON array, for example:
    ```json
    [
      [33.842058, -112.136117, 539],
      [33.842175, -112.134245, 539],
      [33.843923, -112.134407, 539],
      [33.843811, -112.136257, 539]
    ]
    ```
  - Let `x` and `y` be the size of the scene in meters along the X and Y axes. The expected order of the four map corners is `(0,0) (x, 0) (x, y) (0, y)` as depicted in the figure below:
    ![Map corners convention](./images/geospatial-corners-convention.png)

## Steps to Configure Geospatial Coordinates of the Scene

1. Launch the Intel® SceneScape UI and **Log In**.

> 1. Navigate to the scene set up page.

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/39d234ee3d88b5a16e7935a32024e803d8c570b8

1. Click the **3D** button.
1. Make sure the scene is properly positioned relative to X and Y axis. The X axis is red. The Y axis is green.

> 1. Go back to the scene set up page and click the **Edit** button (pencil icon).

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/39d234ee3d88b5a16e7935a32024e803d8c570b8

1. Set `Output lla` to `Yes`.

> 1. Input the geographic coordinates of the four map corners in JSON format. See the [Conventions](#conventions) section for details on how to specify the input value.

Author: Done in https://github.com/open-edge-platform/scenescape/pull/138/commits/39d234ee3d88b5a16e7935a32024e803d8c570b8
